# DYAMOND summer initial conditions

## Overview
The DYnamics of the Atmospheric general circulation Modeled On Non-hydrostatic Domains (DYAMOND) protocol provides a framework for the intercomparison of global storm-resolving models.
This artifact contains the initial conditions needed for the DYAMOND summer simulations, which simulate 40 days and nights, begining on 1 August 2016. 

The downloaded artifact has a resolution of about 0.14 degrees. A low-resolution version of this data, with a resolution of about 1 degree (0.98 degrees) and a custom vertical grid that is uniform across all columns, is generated. The following procedure is followed for generating the low-resolution data:

- Since the horizontal grid is uniformly spaced, a low-resolution horizontal grid is generated by skipping some horizontal points.
- The input file uses hybrid sigma pressure coordinates in the vertical direction. First, we compute the pressure at the vertical levels using $P = ap(k) + P_S b(k)$. In the file, this is $P_S$ = `exp(lnsp)`, b = `hybm` and a = `hyam`. Next, we assume a hydrostatic profile and convert pressure to altitude over the mean sea level using $P = P0*exp(-z / H)$ with scale height $H$. We assume $P^* = 1e5$ (Pa) and $H = 7000$(m). Now, we select our target z, from 10m to 80km, and interpolate all source data onto this grid. We use "Flat" boundary conditions for those points that are outside the range of definition.

## File summmary

- `ifs_oper_T1279_2016080100.nc`: Restart file for DYAMOND summer simulation (~18 GB)
- `DYAMOND_SUMMER_ICS_p98deg.nc`: Initial conditions for DYAMOND summer simulation at 0.98 degree resolution (~436 MB)

## References

Please see `esiwace` DYAMOND initiative webpage at https://www.esiwace.eu/the-project/past-phases/dyamond-initiative for more details.
The artifact used here is downloaded from the url https://swiftbrowser.dkrz.de/public/dkrz_ab6243f85fe24767bb1508712d1eb504/SAPPHIRE/DYAMOND/

## Acknowledgement

DYAMOND data management was provided by the German Climate Computing Center (DKRZ) and supported through the projects ESiWACE and ESiWACE2. The projects ESiWACE and ESiWACE2 have received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreements No 675191 and 823988. This work used resources of the Deutsches Klimarechenzentrum (DKRZ) granted by its Scientific Steering Committee (WLA) under project IDs bk1040 and bb1153.
